
- Hydra FTP Brute Force Attack
- Ebrima Jatta
- Date 08/11/2025
- Contact Info (Optional)

---------------------------------
Table of Contents
---------------------------------
1. Introduction
2. Objective
3. Tools & Environment
4. Methodology
5. Results
6. Analysis
7. Conclusion
8. Future Work
9. References

Introduction

	In this project, I simulated a brute-force attack using Hydra on an intentionally vulnerable system. 
	The project demonstrates how weak passwords can be exploited and the importance of strong authentication policies.
Objective

	The goal is to understand password cracking techniques, assess password security,
	and explore defensive measures such as strong passwords, account lockout, 
	and multi-factor authentication.


Tools & Environment

	-OS: Kali Linux 2025.2 and Metasploitable2 on virtualBox 
	-Tools: Nmap and Hydra

Methodology
	1. Lab setup  
   - Configure Kali Linux as the attacker VM and Metasploitable2 as the target VM on an isolated virtual network.

	2. **Verify connectivity**  
   		ping 192.168.102

	3. Reconnaissance — Nmap scan
    		Performed a service and OS detection scan:
    
    		nmap -sS -sV -O 192.168.56.102
    
    		-sS : TCP SYN (stealth) scan

    		-sV : Service/version detection

    		-O : OS detection
    		Observed output:
    
    		PORT   STATE SERVICE VERSION
    		20/tcp open  ftp     vsftpd 2.3.4
    
    
	4. Attack — Hydra brute-force (FTP)
   		Executed Hydra against the discovered FTP service using a password wordlist:
   
   		hydra -l msfadmin -P /home/kali/Documents/msfpasslist.txt ftp://192.168.56.102
   
   		Observed output:
   
   		[21][ftp] host: 192.168.56.102   login: msfadmin   password: msfadmin




Results

1. Nmap Scan
	A network scan was conducted using Nmap to identify open ports and services running on the target machine. The scan revealed multiple open ports and the associated services, including the FTP service, which was later targeted with Hydra. This step provided crucial information for planning the brute-force attack.

2. Hydra FTP Brute-Force Attack
	Using Hydra, a brute-force attack was performed against the FTP service on the Metasploitable target machine. The attack iterated through the provided password list and successfully discovered valid     login credentials for the FTP account. This demonstrates that weak or commonly used passwords can be exploited to gain unauthorized access.


Analysis

	1. Nmap Scan
        ◦ The Nmap scan provided an overview of the target machine’s open ports and services, which is essential for vulnerability assessment.
        ◦ The scan results guided the brute-force attack by identifying the active FTP service and its port.
        ◦ Regular network scanning is important in security assessments to detect exposed services and reduce the attack surface.
	1. FTP Brute-Force Attack (Hydra)
        ◦ The successful brute-force attack shows that the target machine’s FTP service was vulnerable to password guessing due to weak credentials.
        ◦ Using a common or small password list made it possible to quickly discover the password, demonstrating the importance of strong, unique passwords for system security.
        ◦ This emphasizes the need for implementing security measures such as:
            ▪ Enforcing strong password policies
            ▪ Account lockouts after multiple failed login attempts
            ▪ Monitoring login attempts for suspicious activity






Conclusion
    • The penetration testing exercise demonstrated that weak passwords on FTP services can be easily exploited using brute-force attacks, highlighting the critical importance of strong password policies.
    • Nmap scans are an effective reconnaissance tool, providing valuable information about open ports and running services that can guide further testing.
    • Overall, the results emphasize the need for continuous security assessment, proper access controls, and monitoring to reduce vulnerabilities and protect systems from unauthorized access.

